practice, but when concrete security is not an immediate concern it is conve-
nient instead to use an asymptotic approach to security; this is the approach
taken in this book. This approach, rooted in complexity theory, introduces
an integer-valued security parameter (denoted by n) that parameterizes both
cryptographic schemes as well as all involved parties (namely, the honest par-
ties as well as the attacker). When honest parties initialize a scheme (i.e.,
when they generate keys), they choose some value n for the security parame-
ter; for the purposes of this discussion, one can think of the security parameter
as corresponding to the length of the key. The security parameter is assumed
to be known to any adversary attacking the scheme, and we now view the
running time of the adversary, as well as its success probability, as functions
of the security parameter rather than as concrete numbers. Then:
1. We equate “efficient adversaries” with randomized (i.e., probabilistic)
algorithms running in time polynomial in n. This means there is some
polynomial p such that the adversary runs for time at most p(n) when
the security parameter is n. We also require—for real-world efficiency—
that honest parties run in polynomial time, although we stress that the
adversary may be much more powerful (and run much longer than) the
honest parties.
2. We equate the notion of “small probabilities of success” with success
probabilities smaller than any inverse polynomial in n (see Definition 3.4).
Such probabilities are called negligible.
Let ppt stand for “probabilistic polynomial-time.” A definition of asymptotic
security then takes the following general form:
A scheme is secure if any ppt adversary succeeds in breaking the
scheme with at most negligible probability.
This notion of security is asymptotic since security depends on the behavior
of the scheme for sufficiently large values of n. The following example makes
this clear.
Example 3.2
Say we have a scheme that is asymptotically secure. Then it may be the
case that an adversary running for n3 minutes can succeed in “breaking the
scheme” with probability 240 · 2−n (which is a negligible function of n). When
n ≤ 40 this means that an adversary running for 403 minutes (about 6 weeks)
can break the scheme with probability 1, so such values of n are not very
useful. Even for n = 50 an adversary running for 503 minutes (about 3
months) can break the scheme with probability roughly 1/1000, which may
not be acceptable. On the other hand, when n = 500 an adversary running
for 200 years breaks the scheme only with probability roughly 2−500. 
